
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Quantifying Grave Wealth

[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/mnortoft/QuantGraveWealth/master?urlpath=rstudio)

NB! Binder (or repo2docker) currently runs an outdated version of R
(3.6.3) which gives problems with running the packages stat_lorenz, and
magick (and thus problems with knitting the main paper (paper.Rmd) and
the SI (SI.Rmd) when running this compendium in Binder), follow
<https://github.com/jupyterhub/repo2docker/issues/1077> for updates on
this issue). It therefore works best downloading the whole compendium,
or the [:file_folder: zip file](/archive/QuantGraveWealth.zip) file and
running the project from an updated R version.

This repository contains the data and code for our paper:

> NÃ¸rtoft, Mikkel, (2022). *Quantifying Grave Wealth*. Name of
> journal/book <https://doi.org/xxx/xxx>

The paper quantifies grave wealth from eight different parameters, and
uses these to identify potential wealth classes and calculate Gini
indices using Moravian Corded Ware Culture (CWC) graves as a case study.
One of the eight parameters is (estimated) manufacturing time of grave
goods. The extensive Supplementary Information (SI) in this repository
goes into more detail about how manufacturing time is calculated based
on primarily experimental reference data, and then applied to
archaeological data from different material-specific parameters. The SI
(open SI.html in a separate window or tab) also elaborates on other
theoretical, methodological, and contextual aspects that could not fit
in the main paper. Apart from this, all R-scripts, reference data and
archaeological data (grave goods from Moravian CWC and house sizes for
various regions/periods as baseline for Gini indices) used in the main
paper and the SI can be found in this repository.

### How to cite

Please cite this compendium as:

> Authors, (2021). *Compendium of R code and data for Quantifying Grave
> Wealth*. Accessed 16 dec 2021.

## Contents

The **analysis** directory contains:

-   [:file_folder: paper](/analysis): R Markdown source document for
    manuscript. Includes code to reproduce the figures and tables
    generated by the analysis. It also has a rendered version,
    `paper.docx`, suitable for reading (the code is replaced by figures
    and tables in this file)
-   [:file_folder: data](/analysis/data): Data used in the analysis
    (both experimental reference data and archaeological data).
-   [:file_folder: scripts](/analysis/scripts): Scripts used in the
    analysis.
-   [:file_folder: figures](/analysis/figures): Plots and other
    illustrations for the main paper
-   [:file_folder: supplementary-information](/analysis/paper/SI.html):
    Supplementary information (SI) with specifics on how manufacturing
    time and other value parameters in the main paper were calculated as
    well as extended description theoretical and methodological, and
    contextual aspects that did not fit in the main paper.
    -   [:file_folder: figures_SI](/analysis/figures_SI): Plots and
        other illustrations for the Supplementary Information.

## How to run in your browser or download and run locally

This research compendium has been developed using the statistical
programming language R. To work with the compendium, you will need
installed on your computer the [R
software](https://cloud.r-project.org/) itself and optionally [RStudio
Desktop](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

The simplest way to explore the text, code and data is to click on
[binder](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/mnortoft/QuantGraveWealth/master?urlpath=rstudio)
to open an instance of RStudio in your browser, which will have the
compendium files ready to work with. Binder uses rocker-project.org
Docker images to ensure a consistent and reproducible computational
environment. These Docker images can also be used locally.

You can download the compendium as a zip from this URL:
[QuantGraveWealth.zip](/archive/QuantGraveWealth.zip). After unzipping:
- open the `.Rproj` file in RStudio - run `devtools::install()` to
ensure you have the packages this analysis depends on (also listed in
the [DESCRIPTION](/DESCRIPTION) file). - finally, open
`analysis/paper/paper.Rmd` and knit to produce the `paper.pdf`, or run
`rmarkdown::render("analysis/paper/SI.Rmd")` in the R console to produce
the `SI.html`

### Licenses

**Text and figures :**
[CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

**Code :** See the [DESCRIPTION](DESCRIPTION) file

**Data :** [CC-0](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
attribution requested in reuse

### Contributions

We welcome contributions from everyone. Before you get started, please
see our [contributor guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md). Please note that this
project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CONDUCT.md). By
participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
